docs/castsponsorskip.md, before:

## castsponsorskip

Skip sponsored YouTube segments on local Cast devices

### Synopsis

Skip sponsored YouTube segments on local Cast devices.

When run, this program will watch all Google Cast devices on the LAN.
If a Cast device begins playing a YouTube video, sponsored segments are fetched from the SponsorBlock API.  
When the device reaches a sponsored segment, CastSponsorSkip will quickly seek to the end of the segment.  
CastSponsorSkip will also mute YouTube ads and automatically hit the skip button when it becomes available.

All flags can be set using environment variables.  
To use an env, capitalize all characters, replace `-` with `_`, and prefix with `CSS_`.  
For example, `--paused-interval=1m` would become `CSS_PAUSED_INTERVAL=1m`.


```
castsponsorskip [flags]
```

### Options

```
      --action-types strings         SponsorBlock action types to handle. Shorter segments that overlap with content can be muted instead of skipped. (default [skip,mute])
  -c, --categories strings           Comma-separated list of SponsorBlock categories to skip (default [sponsor])
      --completion string            Output command-line completion code for the specified shell. Can be 'bash', 'zsh', 'fish', or 'powershell'.
      --devices strings              Comma-separated list of device addresses. This will disable discovery and is not recommended unless discovery fails
      --discover-interval duration   Interval to restart the DNS discovery client (default 5m0s)
  -h, --help                         help for castsponsorskip
      --log-level string             Log level (debug, info, warn, error) (default "info")
      --mute-ads                     Mutes the device while an ad is playing (default true)
  -i, --network-interface string     Network interface to use for multicast dns discovery. (default all interfaces)
      --paused-interval duration     Interval to scan paused devices (default 1m0s)
      --playing-interval duration    Interval to scan playing devices (default 500ms)
      --skip-delay duration          Delay skipping the start of a segment
      --skip-sponsors                Skip sponsored segments with SponsorBlock (default true)
  -v, --version                      version for castsponsorskip
      --youtube-api-key string       YouTube API key for fallback video identification (required on some Chromecast devices).
```

Commit message:

feat: Ignore the previously skipped segment for a duration
This is useful if you want to to go back and watch a segment.
Also fixes #18 occasional dupliated log lines.

docs/castsponsorskip.md, after:

## castsponsorskip

Skip sponsored YouTube segments on local Cast devices

### Synopsis

Skip sponsored YouTube segments on local Cast devices.

When run, this program will watch all Google Cast devices on the LAN.
If a Cast device begins playing a YouTube video, sponsored segments are fetched from the SponsorBlock API.  
When the device reaches a sponsored segment, CastSponsorSkip will quickly seek to the end of the segment.  
CastSponsorSkip will also mute YouTube ads and automatically hit the skip button when it becomes available.

All flags can be set using environment variables.  
To use an env, capitalize all characters, replace `-` with `_`, and prefix with `CSS_`.  
For example, `--paused-interval=1m` would become `CSS_PAUSED_INTERVAL=1m`.


```
castsponsorskip [flags]
```

### Options

```
      --action-types strings               SponsorBlock action types to handle. Shorter segments that overlap with content can be muted instead of skipped. (default [skip,mute])
  -c, --categories strings                 Comma-separated list of SponsorBlock categories to skip (default [sponsor])
      --completion string                  Output command-line completion code for the specified shell. Can be 'bash', 'zsh', 'fish', or 'powershell'.
      --devices strings                    Comma-separated list of device addresses. This will disable discovery and is not recommended unless discovery fails
      --discover-interval duration         Interval to restart the DNS discovery client (default 5m0s)
  -h, --help                               help for castsponsorskip
      --ignore-segment-duration duration   Ignores the previous sponsored segment for a set amount of time. Useful if you want to to go back and watch a segment. (default 1m0s)
      --log-level string                   Log level (debug, info, warn, error) (default "info")
      --mute-ads                           Mutes the device while an ad is playing (default true)
  -i, --network-interface string           Network interface to use for multicast dns discovery. (default all interfaces)
      --paused-interval duration           Interval to scan paused devices (default 1m0s)
      --playing-interval duration          Interval to scan playing devices (default 500ms)
      --skip-delay duration                Delay skipping the start of a segment
      --skip-sponsors                      Skip sponsored segments with SponsorBlock (default true)
  -v, --version                            version for castsponsorskip
      --youtube-api-key string             YouTube API key for fallback video identification (required on some Chromecast devices).
```
